All right.
And our last video we made quite a big discovery.
What do we find?
We found that by simply redefining our conception of space time off everything around us that introduced
this huge ripple effect into our understanding of mechanics and in particular, energy.
Let's take a closer look at that ripple effect and try to understand the implications it provides.
So we found that mass is nothing more than a manifestation of energy that energy and mass are inseparable,
that in essence they're the same thing.
Now, when you hear that, that's quite a big assertion, right?
Usually we take any everyday household item.
We say it has mass.
And if we take like heat, for example, that's energy and they seem to be separate concepts.
However, we found that again, by making this slight modification of space time, we find that mass
and energy are equivalent.
OK, so what I want to do in this video is sort of help you understand that even though an object may
not have any kind of lost your kinetic energy, it still has less energy.
It still has some kind of energy.
And the fact that it exists, its mass is a manifestation of that energy.
Right.
This is an expression of energy.
So I want to help you quantify how much energy is actually contained in everyday household items and
everyday mass and give you a better sense of intuition, a better sense of understanding of what exactly
we're talking about here.
So to do that, to quantify the magnitude of this energy.
If you're in an everyday items, let's see how much rest energy is inherent in one gram of mass now
one gram of mass.
It's not a lot of mass.
This can correspond to everyday household items, such as a small paperclip.
Yes, this is one gram of mass.
How much energy is inside it?
It's a lot.
We could possibly harness that user for more practical reasons than just a boring old little paperclip.
Another example of a household item that has one gram of mass is a dollar bill, any kind of U.S. issued
bill currency.
So, you know, depending upon how much energy is in this, it may be $1 or if you could harness the
energy inside the mass that value in hearing it may far surpass the monetary value of this this household
item.
So let's take what we discovered and explore how much energy is composed in these items.
So to do that, what we do is we take our energy for oil.
We just derive from Einstein.
E is equal to the rest mass and not tiny c squared.
We literally just plug in shot.
It's a very simple calculation.
So if we're trying to figure out the rest energy in one gram of mass, no matter what we do, and we
plug in one gram for the rest mass and not what we need to do is we need to convert two kilograms because
we express energy in terms of joules.
So, you know, a jewel is a new meter and a new one is a kilogram times meter per second squared.
So to convert it, we just multiply by one kilogram or a thousand grams and then we multiply by the
speed of light three times 10 to the eight meters per second.
We square that term.
And then what we need to do is convert to our energy terms.
So as I just said, one fuel is equal to one kilogram meter squared per second squared or one meter.
We take that conversion factor.
Plug into this into a calculator MATLAB, Mathematica, even Wolfram Alpha, whatever you want to use.
And that's going to split all this result here, which tells us a very interesting fact.
We find that a one gram of mass, just this little paperclip right here, little small paperclip.
We get nine times 10 to the 13 joules of energy.
That's an insane amount of energy.
So we find that in the macroscopic world, the energy contained within a small amount of mass or the
mass is a crap ton of energy.
This is a huge amount of energy.
To put this into perspective, this amount of energy is equivalent to two times the energy released
by the Hiroshima atomic bomb and 100000 times the kinetic energy of a large aircraft carrier such as
an F-35.
Cool aircraft carriers that do really cool maneuvers.
That's a lot of frickin energy, but it's all contained in this little paper clip.
Or a U.S. dollar bill.
So when you hear about that, you say, wait a second, this one dollar bill, it's only one dollar.
The energy contained in this math far, far exceeds the monetary value of this little dollar.
Yes, that's a lot of energy.
If you could somehow take all this math and figure out a way to annihilate it and convert it from the
mass into a massive energy such as maybe radiation, so on and so forth.
Right.
This occurs when you take an electron and a positron acquired and they release radiation radiative energy.
You could have a value inside of the star that far exceeds that one U.S. dollar monetary value.
So that's pretty interesting.
And this is why.
The power inherent in atomic bombs and nuclear power plants are so coveted, it's it's it's such an
effective way of generating electricity and energy that we use as humans every day in particular.
This is so powerful that the sun through fission and fusion, actually, it's using fusion.
I believe the Sun is able to provide energy for the entire solar system by taking mass particular hydrogen,
annihilating it and converting it into the energy that's instilled in that mass.
So we find that in a macroscopic scale, all this energy exceeds a lot of energy, even a small little
amount of mass.
We can take a little bit of a mass and produce a crap ton of energy.
OK, so this is why nuclear energy and what Einstein discovered is so important.
So absolutely amazing.
But what I want to pull your time to next is a different perspective.
We looked at the macroscopic world and we find that there's a crap ton of energy contained in a small
amount of mass.
Let's look at the microscopic world.
You know, when we do calculations of physics, such as in CERN, if you haven't heard about a particle
accelerator where we accelerate particles, they collide and we analyzed the products of those collisions,
what actually happens in the microscopic world?
A lot of the particles subatomic particles are moving at very high speeds close to the speed of light.
So you would expect relativistic effects that we've been talking about on this course will be more prevalent
and crop up in that kind of scenario.
However, contrary to the macroscopic world, the mass is much, much smaller, right in the microscopic
world where most objects have much less mass will move close to the speed of light.
What we would expect is that the rest energy would be much smaller than what we just calculated here.
Even though, you know, relative relativistic effects, as I just talked about or more prevalent.
So to take a look at this and compare it to the energy and hear it in a dollar bill and a paperclip.
Very small items.
Let's calculate the rest energy of an electron, something that we use a lot in particle physics and
then we're dealing with special relativity.
So the name of the game here is same exact thing.
We've had Eagles M.C. squared that this time we use the math of an electron.
We can look that up in a textbook has tabulated tables of mass, all these guys and we just plug straight
in and do the calculations.
So when we do that, we find that the mass of Electron is 9.1 has 10 to the minus 31 kilogram.
We see this.
This compared to one gram is much smaller, so we would expect, you know, this speed of light three
times 10 to the eighth squared.
All right.
This is going to far offset that huge value that gets provided from the speed of light and.
We back up a little bit, the speed of light is part partially responsible for this huge energy that
we get, but when we run this calculation, plug into the calculator, we end up with.
Yes, as we predicted, a much smaller energy which find not in the microscopic world.
The objects we deal with have much less mass, so they have much less rest, rest energy.
But we see this.
We see the result eight point one nine nine times 10 to the minus 14 joules.
That's a very small amount of energy.
And this really points to the fact that the fuel was really developed to measure things in a macroscopic
sense, right?
Right.
The tube was invented to do Newtonian mechanics, you know, looking at a car, moving the kinetic energy
of a car, moving maybe five miles per hour.
Things of that nature.
Big macroscopic objects.
And we use that in a practical sense when we're doing mechanical engineering and nuclear engineering,
not nuclear.
I meant to say chemical engineering things of that nature that are at a microscopic level.
So when we jump down here, we find that this energy unit is not.
It doesn't seem suited for these kind of calculations and we find is like this jewel.
It's the typical I unit for energy.
This is better suited for macroscopic events I just described.
And what we're going to find is that we want to take this, this energy here and express it a bit differently
so that, you know, it's closer to maybe one higher values that are more appropriate for these smaller
amounts of energy, at least for like one electron that we're going to be dealing with.
So what we're going to do next is I'm going to introduce you to the energy and sort of the mass units
that we're going to use for relativistic calculations, for particle physics, you name it.
And that is as we're going to find out right here, which is tabulated.
It's known as an electric vault.
Next, what we're going to do is I'm going to divide that for you, and I'm going to show you how the
electron comes into play to save the day here and sort of convert this energy unit into something that's
much more practical.
Stay tuned.